Tony Levin Explains Why King Crimson Will Never Stop Evolving: Exclusive Interview

Bassist delves into leader Robert Fripp's restless nature as the group cools its heels amid the coronavirus shutdown.

King Crimson's 2020 North American tour dates with the Zappa Band have been postponed "for a year" amid the coronavirus shutdown. That's left bassist Tony Levin to cool his heels. Still, he says the band won't take long to get back to its fighting weight – and, if history is any guide, they'll emerge transformed. "We need to know if there's a tour, what the dates are," Levin says, matter of factly, in an exclusive UCR interview. "The next issue is we need [King Crimson leader] Robert Fripp to decide what music we're gonna do, so we can get practicing and get up to speed before we get together to rehearse it." Decades later, Levin says Fripp's vision for the group is still evolving. He joined us to discuss how King Crimson reworks its classic material onstage, learning to live with the "prog-rock" label, and how he's come to embrace the band's towering legacy. You’ve said that the new Crimson material played onstage in the last few years was either devised by Robert and singer-guitarist Jakko Jakszyk or by the drummers, and then presented to the band. In the case of the full-band songs, were those sort of arranged with everyone in the room, or did Robert and Jakko have a pretty clear vision for that material already? That's a good question! That harkens back a couple years, so I'm going to think about it a minute. It's usually Jakko that I hear from, and he says he has an idea for a song or something he's worked out with Robert. Maybe [drummer] Gavin [Harrison]'s played on it. He'd send it to me to redo the bass part as I felt it should be. In a similar way, they'd hand it to Gavin and ask him to do an arrangement for the three drummers. That might not be the only way we did it, but that's what comes to mind when you ask about that. It's been a few years since we've done that kind of writing. I'll add that when Robert first asked the drummers to do some pieces, the intention was that we would gradually fly along, the rest of us. The intention, as least as I understood it, is that they'd become band pieces. That just didn't happen. That's not a problem. It's hard to say why things don't happen. We ended up maybe tinkering with that, but maybe the thing was that they sounded so good with just the drummers — there's so much going on, and they're so interesting. But there was that thought at one point: having that be a new way of coming up with material.




